All right, we have our content displayed.
Now it's time for user action.
It's not a closed system,
it's a system where users can come in and
cause events to happen in
response to their action.
What is the use of action here?
We're gonna keep it pretty simple,
and it's a user's gonna type.
I think they're gonna have
to type will unfortunately,
type will, and there it is,
will shows, it's extraordinary,
it's so happy to paint my fingers but
not the whiteboard.
There it is, and Will will go
into the value automatically.
I think our friend online
was almost implying that.
Like, hold on, it's already
automatically there, fantastic.
Thank goodness it is.
So, 2 is an event saying please go and
execute handle input.
And that's what we go and do,
we go and execute handle input.
Data to view is off the call stack.
So, call stack is gonna
have executed on it.
Well, actually, Matric,
can you tell me what's gonna happen from
our handleInput function is gonna be
added to what and what and executed how?
Tell me what's gonna happen.
>> Is it assigned to callback queue first,
right?
>> Yes.
>> And then the message loop
is gonna put it to call stack.
>> Yes, perfect.
And that's where now handle
input will be executed.
We don't add porins, instead,
we rely on JavaScript doing so.
There it is and
it gets to create a brand new what Metric?
>> Would be assigned to the point.
>> We're gonna execute.
>> It's gonna execute handle input, right?
>> Execute handle input,
create a new, everyone together.
Execution context, fantastic, exactly.
We've got some code to run.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's got some code to run.
So we're gonna create a new
execution context for it.
And there it is, running handle input.
It's a very small one though,
because all it's gonna do is change data,
that's the only thing we
can do is change data.
And the data we're gonna
change is the value of post,
which we're going to assign to
the result of getting the value
that was just inserted by the user,
the string will, and
then assigning that to post,
beautiful, there it is.
As a JavaScript string, the string Will.
Forgive me for using my name,
but I hope it's not so bad.
We'll be using that to then remove,
or not remove, but implicitly,
we're not gonna display
some of the results.
So it's hopefully not something
to self-congratulatory,
it's rather the opposite.
So there it is, data change done, and
how nice that we know our data changes
happening in one handler function,
beautiful.
Not lots of different things up
displaying content just changing data.
It's not a truth, it's a move,
is an effort, it's at a tactic to make our
lives easier to reason about this
complex state, and view relationship.
And so now, we move to queue,
we move to automatically.
Well, this is off the call stack.
And we know that what's gonna happen is
our data to view function is going to
execute because it does love to execute
every bloody, sorry, I didn't just swear.
Sorry, every few moments, every 15
milliseconds, do I add the parens, Phil?
>> Not yourself.
>> No, exactly, JavaScript's gonna
add data to view to the call stack.
I'm just gonna do D to V.
So the call stack, there it is.
It creates everyone together a brand new.
>> Execution context.
>> Beautiful, and so
we're now gonna convert our data to
our view based on this new data.
And this data is not just gonna
change the contents of our boxes,
it's actually gonna switch
out one of those boxes.
It's gonna not even create it.
Okay, let's do it, let's dive into it.
Alexa, if you don't mind doing it again,
now that new setup, our new state,
what are we creating?
And we are gonna create these
from scratch are, aren't we?
Yes, so tell me what's gonna
be reassigned to JS input?
>> Yes, we're gonna create a brand new.
>> Yeah.
>> JavaScript object with create element.
>> Let's do the first one, exactly.
Just input is gonna be reassigned
to a brand new created.
Talk over me, like so if you don't mind
>> Yeah, so we're gonna use that
create element method on the document
object to create a new unattached input.
>> Perfect, brilliant.
Brilliant, everyone get that what
Alexa said they're a new unattached
input element.
>> It's just floating around in there.
>> Okay, yeah, exactly, there it is.
Look at that lovely pen.
Very happy and,
that was a Bob Ross reference, wasn't it?
Very happy pen here, and?
>> So we're reassigning JS input,
we're gonna get that new JavaScript
object that has all the same,
getter setters on it but our hidden
link because we are reassigning it.
>> Do we remove this one, I think just for
the first one we're going to,
so we truly know that it's
lost its JavaScript label,
this input element here,
because we are reassigning to
a brand new object as the output
of this create element call.
Not the document I never fall for the trap
of document.createelement is going to
return out to an object,
as you said rightly, Alexa.
So there we go.
I hope the camera pans down to my pen
experts who needs to be acknowledged for
the hard work that they're doing.
So that is a brand new object
linking to as you rightly said,
Alexa, a brand new C++
instance of the input class
in C++ an object and it's a link to it.
There it is, and
it has all of the relevant functions.
It looks exactly the same as before,
but it is a new one attached to, dear.
That's I don't even know that is.
It is a new one attached to, it was
actually wrong it's on input isn't it,
it's a new one that's attached
to our underlying input object.
There it is, okay, and
then the same for jazz div,
we declare but not,
what am I talking about?
So you never take it for granted?
What is gonna happen here?
Why will you tell me what's gonna
be assigned here to JS div?
>> Yeah, so online five first we're
gonna execute the ternary statement.
>> Beautiful.
>> We're gonna check the value of
post which currently is Will.
>> It is well, is it true?
Yes, it is.
So what do we assign to jazz div?
>> As a result we're not creating accessor
objects we're not creating a new node
we're creating an empty or
reassigning JS div to an empty string.
>> Fantastic.
Okay, then we're gonna add a handler.
It's the same handler but function but
we're re adding it here as
our handler with handle
input being attached to
the input handler property, and
this is what we've just done
there in line ten, I guess.
Use the oninput setter on
the jsinput newly linked accessor
object to the new input DOM element
to which we attach a handle input.
Function as its input handler.
By the way,
we can call that function anything.
We can call it y, as long as
it's the function that then gets
assigned to the input handler
using the input setter, beautiful.
And now, we're going to go ahead and,
we're gonna go ahead and
run in line 12, what?
Let's have y again.
>> Yeah, we're going to look up.
We're going to call the replace method
on the body object which is itself
a property of the.
>> Right, let me just write this out,
forgive me, one second.
So, we're going to say, sorry again,
say it was perfect what you were saying,
I just wasn't listening,
I was thinking about my pens.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Very fair.
We're going to call the replace
children method on the body object,
which is itself a property of
the document global object.
Then it's slightly different this time.
>> Right.
>> Shall I go into that?
>> Yeah, go for it please.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Of the two arguments,
the first, JS input,
is very similar to the previous element.
>> Very similar.
>> Attaching it to the DOM.
The second argument, however, JS div,
is currently just an empty string.
>> Perfect, so
that'll be essentially ignored.
And we end up with, note by the way,
here's another case where
that JS div setting text content,
I skipped over it knowing it won't break.
Paul raised this earlier knowing it won't
break, would I in practice actually
determine that it's better to say,
if Js div is not an element,
then don't try and add content to it,
but in this case it doesn't break.
And my purpose is to try and
keep things as minimal as possible.
And so, yeah, same thing here.
Our Js input, js div, js div and
empty string acts as ignore this element,
don't append it.
And so why, what is the element
that gets appended to our page?
>> Just the input element.
>> Just the new input element.
And these two get unappended.
And we get instead a link
to our new input which we
set the did I forget to
set the value of it?
After we checked the conditional I
forgot to update my value of JS input.
Let me do that,
what was the value set, y2?
>> It was the string Will.
>> Yeah, thank you.
And it's in white because it is
coming from JavaScript data.
And it's set, therefore,
we are going to remove this element,
and a whole brand new element
is being appended with Will.
And the user won't even notice
a difference as long as we set for
that element to be refocused on
via the JSinput.focus method
that ensures the user's cursor
jumps straight into it.
So that as they're writing,
they're not like I wrote a letter.
I mean, we didn't get to it's
550 milliseconds too fast, and
it will bounce out if we
didn't write anything.
Now that's because in reality,
we are rebuilding our entire model of the
page here, based off our underlying data.
And that is incredibly nice for us as
developers to be able to say everything
the user sees is gonna be defined in
relationship to some underlying data.
And we're not gonna say if
the data changes this way,
if there were already elements only
remove them under this condition, nope.
Everything will be one to one data
generates the exact elements exactly as
user sees them from that data.
And then user action can only affect
what you see via changing that data,
so you wanna keep that function one to
one it better handle the creation of
elements on the very first time, and
the later edit of them, not by changing or
removing them, but just by saying, do it
again, conditional on the underlying data.
Problem with that, and we're already
seeing a preview of it, is while it
gives us a full picture of what is gonna
be displayed, a list of elements in.
Sorry while it gives us a full picture of
what's gonna be displayed from our data
in JavaScript, which we could even
use to draw out in JavaScript,
[COUGH] draw out in JavaScript elements
before they appear on the DOM.
The downside of it is, hold on,
we are recreating elements on the DOM,
we could have 1000 of them,
are we really going to
have that on every single time
a minor detail and data changes?
So, if we hadn't by the way,
had Will here and
we'd had let's say Wyat or
John we said, or Alexa, or Phil or
whatever then we would still
have had our div created.
JS div is going to be the result of
first checking your posts as well.
If it is, don't even create
an element as we perfectly got here
from why don't create an accessor instead,
just create empty string.
If we did get a post of, let's say, value
John, then as Alexa was saying earlier,
we would create an element unattached
in the C++ list of elements.
And we would then assign an object
accessing it with a hidden property
into JSdiv, into which we would then
add the text, or with which we would
then add the text to the DOM element,
the text being, let's say, John.
All right, everything you see is now
dependent on underlying data and
it is funneled through one function,
what is that function known as?
It's a component, it describes in full,
only took us x number of hours.
To get to a full UI component
describing in full underlying data, and
its appearance on the page under all
conditions of what that underlying data
could be, under all conditions of what
their history of use interaction is.
Because all user action ends
up becoming state, therefore,
a function that describes
the translation of that state,
that data to view is a full description
of the entire piece of content.
Its underlying data all
possible conditions for
what can be displayed are all
captured by the description of
the relationship between that state
that data and what the user sees.
Don't forget, it should also, and
must and does, attach the handler,
there could be many of them in practice,
that then passes back the user's action
as a submission to change that data.
Where we have hopefully
reasoned through and designed,
based on that data, whatever it is,
not what came before, but
whatever that data is at that
moment display our content of it.
All right, let's have thumbs on this
fully now all we've changed is add
the creation of the elements as
well into this data view function,
partially known as a UI component.
I wanna see your thumbs, you lost me.
Paul played me there, pulling like this,
like that, all right, very.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's okay, I wanna see clarifications.
Alexa has got a clarification,
Ian's clear, Paul's clear,
Wyatt's got a clarification,
Alexa, take it away.
>> Small thing about replace children just
to clarify my understanding because I have
never used C++ and I don't know the
details of how everything works in there.
But when we do replace children and
we like unattach the previous
elements from the body or
like remove the reference to it and
because we no longer have
a JavaScript like pointer to them,
immediately garbage collected,
we don't have a memory leak.
>> Yes, well, I mean,
it's gonna depend on the engine
design is gonna depend on
the engine design, okay.
So I often brought up this tool that
I found, maybe people even used it,
that Microsoft has that allows
you to look for any memory leaks,
that is elements on the DOM that do not
have labels in JavaScript but are not,
also not attached, meaning you can't
use traversal like searching for
selectors to even retrieve them.
They are only gonna be retrievable
by a label, but the label's gone,
which would be a memory leak.
That's elements that don't have any access
anywhere in our runtime from JavaScript,
any access by us as
programmers ever again, and yet
they're still left in C++,
that would be a memory leak.
There is a tool from Microsoft that can
identify any of those that you might
have missed.
That makes me somewhat think there may be
scenarios where they could still sneak
through but I don't know, that could
have just been the implementation for
a given browser historically or
something like that.
Because in practice, once they're replaced
here in a modern browser they will be
cleaned up and removed.
So maybe there's older browsers
where that's not the case but
in this they would be exactly
as you say Alexa removed.
Okay, folks, so we are now going to
function that fully creates element and
relate to data or
view is known as a UI component.
Given we said,
I really do like that phrasing,
there are two things we're
doing with UI engineering.
One, display content, well,
we're not gonna miss a chance, are we?
One,
>> Display content.
>> Two, let the user.
>> Change the content.
>> Yeah, change it, exactly,
change the content, exactly, change it.
Well, change it, change the content
is wonderfully ambiguous.
Record right to cuz in the real
world they're the same thing,
content is what I see and it's its state,
its reality where it is it's changeable.
State is the ability to then see that
these pixels in the universe and
move them here, not in the computer
those are two separate things.
However the more we can make
them the same the better.
Particularly difficult in JavaScript
because data's in one and
what you see is in another runtime C++.
Function that fully creates elements and
sets up that data to view relationship
that sounds pretty useful.
If we want data to view our content to be
bound together it's called a UI component,
combines everything into one function,
creates elements, sets that data content,
attaches handles, and displays,
describes in full what the user will see.
In how it relates to underlying data the
view and the data I would call the content
that's not to say like the content
is the view of the data in a sense,
ties Data View handles how user
can change the underlying data and
therefore what they see because it also
reruns the update view with that new data.
React, angular, views, felt, all built
out UI components are such a core part.
Because what's even more awesome is once
you have one, you could have others.
You could rerun this one if you
gave this a name like create input.
I don't know what you call it, create
input preview, which is input preview.
Then now, we'd even call it,
not even create,
because it's not quite saying create.
It's a description of the full
relationship between the data
and the views.
I don't wanna even call it input and
preview.
You may wanna split them out into two,
but let's say we kept them as one,
input preview.
You could now run that 20 times and
have 20 input previews.
Ours wouldn't quite work cuz we'd
globally saving them, in practice,
we wouldn't globally save them.
We'd keep them in here, that handler would
have access to them because the handle
be defined inside and get via closure,
access to our credit elements.
In order for us to keep our diagramming
simple, we've stored them in global, but
in practice, we would probably store
them locally in this UI component.
Encapsulating bundling up our full
end-to-end data to view creation and
the relationship between the data and
the view, both from the user's
action back to the data and
from the data to what the user sees.